---
title: Repeating Keywords Won't Help SEO 
date: 2020-04-16
# description: Sample article showcasing basic Markdown syntax and formatting for HTML elements.
tags: ["SEO", "Digital Marketing"]
---
<!--more-->

## Google is smarter than you think... 

It has been played around for a long time by many people claiming to be "SEO experts", but Google has now given a final wording on the topic.
> Specific Keyword Density is *NOT* a ranking factor.

In fact, Google has even gone on record to say that it *does NOT even pay attention* to keyword density!

In the words of Matt Cutts, former spokesperson for Google, addressing the issue.
>“Just because you can say it 7-8 times that doesn’t necessarily mean it will help with your ranking.”

{{< youtube   Rk4qgQdp2UA >}}

Keyword density is arguably one of the most misunderstood aspects of SEO

## Gone With The Wind...

Specific Keyword Density used to be a ranking factor for search engines earlier, as a page having higher keyword density for a particular keyword was considered to have more focused and thorough information about that topic.

However, like many other ranking factors, this was also blatantly abused by content writers who started "artificially" stuffing keywords on a webpage to gain higher rankings and reach their target of 3% or 5% or whatever they assumed was best

The result was poor quality pages getting ranked high due to unnatural keyword densities.

## The New Era...

Google has combated this issue with many groundbreaking algorithmic updates such as the Panda Update, Hummingbird algorithmic change and the latest development of RankBrain as recent as 26th October 2019.

Now high keyword density is easily identified as an indicator of SEO spam. With the development of these new algorithmic updates, such spammy websites can be easily recognized and downgraded in search rankings.

##How Does It Work Now?

With RankBrain and Word2vec, Google tries to understand the content of your webpage as a whole and now looks for LSI Keywords(Latent Semantic Indexing Keywords) while ranking a single webpage and a more complex TF-IDF (Term Frequency and Inverse Document Frequency) while ranking the whole website around that particular keyword.

LSI keywords are great for SEO for many reasons:

* LSI keywords can help your content rank not only for your target keywords but also for related keyword and synonyms
* They help search engines understand that you have covered your topic completely in-depth and will help you rank better
* Provides for a good user experience as now they do not have to read through blocks of text repeating the same words over and over again

## The Verdict

>So if you hire a content writer who claims to write content with "optimized keyword density", simply run the other way.
